---
layout: page
title: "Untitled"
date: 2005-06-05T20:36:47+00:00
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
group: Main
---



## Overview

This section will be an attempt to document a few of the custom features of this site. The aim is to make maintaining the site more user friendly and help unify the page layout throughout.

## Headings

There are three generally used heading levels: <h1>[=!=], <h2> [=!!=], and <h3> [=!!!=]. The general rule is to keep within these three heading levels. For ease of use, the graphic buttons include all three levels.

### Page Title Heading

The page title is automatically generated by the page name. However, if you want a different title you will need to use the [==] directive.

### Section Heading

The sections within a page use the <h2> heading. Generally, there should be at least two sections to sub-divide into sections.

### Sub-section Heading

When a section is sufficiently large, the <h3> heading can be used to separate sub-topics.

## Use of Table of Contents

Ideally, the table of contents helps a user get a quick overview of the page and help navigate in a large page. Naturally, when the page is short this may be a bit of overkill. One trend in TOC-enabled wikies is to enable TOCs  when there are three or more page sections. The TOC macro here is manually inserted, and will list the next two levels of headings it encounters. A good rule of thumb is to keep the TOC macro just under the page title.

## Page Renaming

Renaming a page is a fairly easy endeavor. When you want to rename a page, type [=?action=rename=] after the URL. This will take you to a renaming interface. Just select the group and/or type in the new name. If you are trying to rename to a new group, you will first have to create the group, then rename the page. Pages cannot overwrite existing pages. One key advantage to this approach is that the former name to the page has a redirect automatically inserted. So, if you rename a page that has dozens of links, the links are not broken.

## Listing Linking Pages

To list linking pages, just use this markup: [==] That will build a list of single pages.
