---
layout: page
title: "60c-62c: First Contact"
date: 2007-03-26T01:40:54+00:00
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
group: Chronology
---

With the establishment of the new, enlightened Reunification republic,
humanity again began exploring interstellar space.  The early impetus
for this was to rediscover worlds lost during the Second Decline, and
not necessarily to explore new systems.  Still, with the unreliability
of the charts and encyclopedic information that was left to them after
twelve centuries, the two goals became intertwined.

The entire direction of the growing republic; indeed, its entire
foundation, were altered with the discovery of the first intelligent
alien species.  Despite the largely peaceful nature of the republic,
this first meeting, and most of the early ones after it were not
friendly.  The aliens viewed humanity as an expansionist power
invading their space, and the republic's military viewed the hostility
of the aliens as a sign of an inevitable war to follow.

In time, as the communication barrier was brought down, diplomats from
both species managed to come to terms with each other.   The aliens
used a new and radical type of FTL for which there was no theoretical
foundation in humanity's long history in space.  For much of humanity
the initial fear and xenophobia gave way to a new era of hope, and,
somewhat more troubling, of a nearly religious view on the aliens.

The only dark note in this era was that which troubled the leadership
and many scientists, that the aliens seemed quite reticient to reveal
the nature of their advanced technologies.  Most people seemed to
believe this was largely because the aliens viewed us as a somewhat
inferior, more volatile species, and did not want to give humans
technologies that might disturb interstellar peace




