---
layout: page
title: "21c-24c: The Emergence Era"
date: 2004-12-14T20:08:47+00:00
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
group: Chronology
---

From post-modern, dystopian beginnings, corporations led humanity to reach beyond Earth and colonize the solar system with unanticipated technological advances until humanity overthrew the corporations. Our post-modern society strained Earth's resources as our population grew. Trans-national mega-corporations led humanity out of its dystopia through colonization of the Solar system. Luna, the asteroid belt and other key planetary moons were colonized first. Eventually, humanity domed parts of Mars and began a long-term terraforming project. Technological advances in subluminal propulsion, laser-burst communications and messenger boats helped keep humanity together. However, as humanity prepared to reach out into the stars, colonial revolt overthrew the patronizing corporations. 

Problems in over-population increased throughout the 21C. Space provided
the escape valve. It also allowed humanity to tap new resources as our
access to earth-borne resources finally reached the point of diminishing
returns. Immigration of lower-income foreigners into affluent nations
led to dystopian circumatances. Cybernetics and hedonic technologies
proliferated, which only served to compound the problem. Less affluent
nations continued being rended by civil strife. Multinational
organizations failed to stem the avalanche of human misery.

Corporations, however, had the means to effect change. Without
governmental bureaucracies, corporations adapted to the changing world.
Private Military and Security Corporations (PMCs and PSCs) provided
stability in ravaged nations. Corporations solved problems with space
travel and helped humanity finally sever ties with Earth. Through
effective lobbying, corporations loosed themselves of oversight and
developed quasi-sovereignty&mdash;a status which zenithed with the
establishment of the United Corporations (UC) organization. Through the UC,
the corporations invalidated United Nations (UN) treaties on space and
were themselves able to acquire entire planets and other heavenly bodies
as corporate holdings.

With these new rights in hand, UC corporations established permanent
settlements on Luna, the asteroid belt and other key planetary moons.
Some corporations, seeking to avoid potential backlash, moved their
corporate headquarters to Luna. Colonies in the asteroid belt (a.k.a.,
"Belter colonies" provided raw materials necessary for continued space
dominance. Some corporations even established their headquarters among
the Belters. (OTHER MOONS)

Martian colonization developed more slowly due to problems of distance.
Only in the early 23C were domes established that could manage
substantial populations. Once the domes were built, terraforming of Mars
began in earnest. 
* <span class=''>WHY? (Y)</span>

Advancements in the 21C in various fields led to explosive growth in
space technologies. While travel was still subluminal, scientists
learned to tease new sources of power to allow effencient solar sails,
ram scoops, laser propoulsion and improvised fusion rockets. This was
done in response to corporate need to maintain control of
astrographically diverse holdings. However, due to limitations in
travel, communication remained strongest via laser burst technology,
with messenger boats providing limited parcel delivery.

The problem with corporations is their inherent psychopathic
personality. Corporations focus on its own advancement regardless of the
price borne by others. This characteristic was felt as humanity's reach
skyward became more routine. Colonists demanded better treatment and
more rights, and Corporations established private armies to quell
dissent. In response, colonials banded together in militant trade
unions. The most notorious (and longest enduring) of these was the
Independent Asteroid Miners (IAM). Conflict with the IAM reached epic
proportions and led to the overthrow of corporations.



 




